README.md, before:

# Galactic Unicorn C(++) Examples

This is a collection of (hopefully informative!) examples for programming the
sublime Galactic Unicorn. This project is based on Pimoroni's helpful boilerplate,
so I've left the basic build instructions below.

Each example is a standalone single source file; CMake will produce a collection
of `uf2` files on building, so you can install whichever one you like to your
Unicorn.

## rain

A port of [my MicroPython version](https://github.com/ahnlak/unicorn-toys/blob/main/rain.py)
of the ancient `rain` text terminal demo; raindrops on falling on your Unicorn.


# Building

Please note that I don't use Visual Studio myself, so I can't promise I haven't
broken something in those builds. Stick to the command line for an easy life :-)

Other than that, it's a normal CMake-style build:

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

This should generate a collection of `uf2` files, one for each example.


## Before you start

It's easier if you make a `pico` directory or similar in which you keep the SDK, Pimoroni Libraries and your projects alongside each other. This makes it easier to include libraries.

## Preparing your build environment

Install build requirements:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install cmake gcc-arm-none-eabi build-essential
```

And the Pico SDK:

```
git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi/pico-sdk
cd pico-sdk
git submodule update --init
export PICO_SDK_PATH=`pwd`
cd ../
```

The `PICO_SDK_PATH` set above will only last the duration of your session.

You should should ensure your `PICO_SDK_PATH` environment variable is set by `~/.profile`:

```
export PICO_SDK_PATH="/path/to/pico-sdk"
```

## Grab the Pimoroni libraries

```
git clone https://github.com/pimoroni/pimoroni-pico
```

## Clone this boilerplate

```
git clone https://github.com/pimoroni/pico-boilerplate
cd pico-boilerplate
```

If you have not or don't want to set `PICO_SDK_PATH` you can edit `.vscode/settings.json` to pass the path directly to CMake.

## Prepare Visual Studio Code

Open VS Code and hit `Ctrl+Shift+P`.

Type `Install` and select `Extensions: Install Extensions`.

Make sure you install:

1. C/C++
2. CMake
3. CMake Tools
4. Cortex-Debug (optional: for debugging via a Picoprobe or Pi GPIO)
5. Markdown All in One (recommended: for preparing your own README.md)

## Prepare your project

Edit `CMakeLists.txt` and follow the instructions, you should make sure you:

1. edit your project name
2. include the libraries you need
2. link the libraries to your project

## Pick your LICENSE

We've included a copy of BSD 3-Clause License to match that used in Raspberry Pi's Pico SDK and Pico Examples. You should review this and check it's appropriate for your project before publishing your code.

Commit message:

Cleared out some old boilerplate stuff from the readme

README.md, after:

# Galactic Unicorn C(++) Examples

This is a collection of (hopefully informative!) examples for programming the
sublime Galactic Unicorn. This project is based on Pimoroni's helpful boilerplate,
so I've left the basic build instructions below.

Each example is a standalone single source file; CMake will produce a collection
of `uf2` files on building, so you can install whichever one you like to your
Unicorn.

## rain

A port of [my MicroPython version](https://github.com/ahnlak/unicorn-toys/blob/main/rain.py)
of the ancient `rain` text terminal demo; raindrops on falling on your Unicorn.


# Building

Please note that I don't use Visual Studio myself, so I can't promise I haven't
broken something in those builds. Stick to the command line for an easy life :-)

Other than that, it's a normal CMake-style build:

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

This should generate a collection of `uf2` files, one for each example.


## Before you start

It's easier if you make a `pico` directory or similar in which you keep the SDK, Pimoroni Libraries and your projects alongside each other. This makes it easier to include libraries.

## Preparing your build environment

Install build requirements:

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install cmake gcc-arm-none-eabi build-essential
```

And the Pico SDK:

```
git clone https://github.com/raspberrypi/pico-sdk
cd pico-sdk
git submodule update --init
export PICO_SDK_PATH=`pwd`
cd ../
```

The `PICO_SDK_PATH` set above will only last the duration of your session.

You should should ensure your `PICO_SDK_PATH` environment variable is set by `~/.profile`:

```
export PICO_SDK_PATH="/path/to/pico-sdk"
```

## Grab the Pimoroni libraries

```
git clone https://github.com/pimoroni/pimoroni-pico
```

## Clone this repo

```
git clone https://github.com/ahnlak/unicorn-cpp-examples
cd unicorn-cpp-examples
```

If you have not or don't want to set `PICO_SDK_PATH` and you are using Visual Studio Code,
you can edit `.vscode/settings.json` to pass the path directly to CMake.

## Prepare Visual Studio Code

Open VS Code and hit `Ctrl+Shift+P`.

Type `Install` and select `Extensions: Install Extensions`.

Make sure you install:

1. C/C++
2. CMake
3. CMake Tools
4. Cortex-Debug (optional: for debugging via a Picoprobe or Pi GPIO)
5. Markdown All in One (recommended: for preparing your own README.md)
